README.md, before:

# oauth2-proxy-nexus3

![CI](https://github.com/le-garff-yoann/oauth2-proxy-nexus3/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

This service is designed to operate as a proxy between [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy),
an Auth provider (AP), which is the one configured for *oauth2-proxy*, and Sonatype Nexus 3.

## Typical setup

```
********** 1↔↔ ********* 1↔↔ **************** 5↔↔ *********************** 5↔↔ ***********
*        * 2↔↔ *       * 3↔↔ *              *     * oauth2-proxy-nexus3 *     * Nexus 3 *
* Client * 3↔↔ * Nginx * 4↔↔ * oauth2-proxy *     ***********************     ***********
*        * 4↔↔ *       * 5↔↔ *              *     5
********** 5↔↔ *********     ****************     ↕
                       2     3                    ↕
                       ↕     ↕                    ↕
                       ↔↔↔↔↔ ******************** ↔
                             * AP (e.g. OICD Generic,*
                             *          GitLab) *
                             ********************
```

1. Sign in and redirect to the AP.
2. Login and authorize the application.
3. Ask for a token.
4. Follow the callback to *oauth2-proxy* and finalize the OAuth flow.
5. *oauth2-proxy* verify and authorize each request to *oauth2-proxy-nexus3*. The OAuth access token if send through a header to *oauth2-proxy-nexus3* by *oauth2-proxy* and is used to keep in sync the Nexus 3 userbase with the AP (which is the OIDC too).

**A demonstrative setup of this is available [here](docker/)**.

## Configuration

| ENV | Mandatory? | Default value | Description |
|-|-|-|-|
| `O2PN3_LISTEN_ON` | ☓ | 0.0.0.0:8080 | The [IP]:PORT on which the HTTP server will listen. |
| `O2PN3_LOG_LEVEL` | ☓ | info | Set Application log level. |
| `O2PN3_SSL_INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY` | ☓ | false | Skip SSL verifications if set to `true`. |
| `O2PN3_AP` | ☓ | oidc_generic | The name of the Auth Provider to be used. (oicd_generic, gitlab) |
| `O2PN3_AP_URL` | ✓ | | The AP URL on which OAuth operations will be performed. |
| `O2PN3_AP_ACCESS_TOKEN_HEADER` | ☓ | X-Forwarded-Access-Token | The name of the HTTP header on which the AP OAuth *access_token* will be provided to this service. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_URL` | ✓ | | The Nexus 3 URL on which sync and reverse-proxying will be performed. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_ADMIN_USER` | ✓ | | A Nexus 3 **admin** user. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | ✓ | | A Nexus 3 **admin** password. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_RUT_HEADER` | ☓ | X-Forwarded-User | The name of the HTTP header used by the Rut Realm/capability (Nexus 3) for the authentication. |

### Prerequisites

#### oauth2-proxy

The `-pass-access-token` flag must be set to `true`.

#### Nexus 3

The Rut Realm/capability must be enabled and configured the use the same HTTP header as configured in via `$O2PN3_NEXUS3_RUT_HEADER`.

Commit message:

make oauth2_proxy configurable, refactor config structure
Signed-off-by: Mario Trangoni <mjtrangoni@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# oauth2-proxy-nexus3

![CI](https://github.com/le-garff-yoann/oauth2-proxy-nexus3/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

This service is designed to operate as a proxy between [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy),
an Auth provider (AP), which is the one configured for *oauth2-proxy*, and Sonatype Nexus 3.

## Typical setup

```
********** 1↔↔ ********* 1↔↔ **************** 5↔↔ *********************** 5↔↔ ***********
*        * 2↔↔ *       * 3↔↔ *              *     * oauth2-proxy-nexus3 *     * Nexus 3 *
* Client * 3↔↔ * Nginx * 4↔↔ * oauth2-proxy *     ***********************     ***********
*        * 4↔↔ *       * 5↔↔ *              *     5
********** 5↔↔ *********     ****************     ↕
                       2     3                    ↕
                       ↕     ↕                    ↕
                       ↔↔↔↔↔ ******************** ↔
                             * AP (e.g. OICD Generic,*
                             *          GitLab) *
                             ********************
```

1. Sign in and redirect to the AP.
2. Login and authorize the application.
3. Ask for a token.
4. Follow the callback to *oauth2-proxy* and finalize the OAuth flow.
5. *oauth2-proxy* verify and authorize each request to *oauth2-proxy-nexus3*. The OAuth access token if send through a header to *oauth2-proxy-nexus3* by *oauth2-proxy* and is used to keep in sync the Nexus 3 userbase with the AP (which is the OIDC too).

**A demonstrative setup of this is available [here](docker/)**.

## Configuration

| ENV | Mandatory? | Default value | Description |
|-|-|-|-|
| `O2PN3_LISTEN_ON` | ☓ | 0.0.0.0:8080 | The [IP]:PORT on which the HTTP server will listen. |
| `O2PN3_LOG_LEVEL` | ☓ | info | Set Application log level. |
| `O2PN3_SSL_INSECURE_SKIP_VERIFY` | ☓ | false | Skip SSL verifications if set to `true`. |
| `O2PN3_AP` | ☓ | oidc_generic | The name of the Auth Provider to be used. (oicd_generic, gitlab) |
| `O2PN3_AP_URL` | ✓ | | The AP URL on which OAuth operations will be performed. |
| `O2PN3_AP_ACCESS_TOKEN_HEADER` | ☓ | X-Forwarded-Access-Token | The name of the HTTP header on which the AP OAuth *access_token* will be provided to this service. |
| `O2PN3_OAUTH2_PROXY_COOKIE_NAME` | x | `_oauth2_proxy` | The name of the cookie that the *oauth_proxy* creates. Should be changed to use a cookie prefix if --cookie-secure is set. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_URL` | ✓ | | The Nexus 3 URL on which sync and reverse-proxying will be performed. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_ADMIN_USER` | ✓ | | A Nexus 3 **admin** user. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | ✓ | | A Nexus 3 **admin** password. |
| `O2PN3_NEXUS3_RUT_HEADER` | ☓ | X-Forwarded-User | The name of the HTTP header used by the Rut Realm/capability (Nexus 3) for the authentication. |

### Prerequisites

#### oauth2-proxy

The `-pass-access-token` flag or `OAUTH2_PROXY_PASS_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable must be set to `true`.

#### Nexus 3

The Rut Realm/capability must be enabled and configured the use the same HTTP header as configured in via `$O2PN3_NEXUS3_RUT_HEADER`.
